# Running Docker images
To run the docker compose setup, copy the `.env.example` to `.env` in the root folder. The example file comes with an example configuration that should be changed when used in production.

Most of the services are validating if the required environment variables are set, if not the process will exit with an error message.

## Building containers
The containers are built via the tasks in each nx app like:
```bash
nx run holder-app:container
```	
To build multiple projects at once, you can use the `run-many` command:
```bash
nx run-many --target=container --all
```

By default the containers are built with the `latest` tag and will not be pushed to the registry. When pushed to the `main` branch of the repo, the github action will push the latest version to the registry.

## Configs
The configuration of the pwa client is mounted from the `config/holder-frontend/config.js` file, this allows to change the endpoints to the different services without the need to recompile the app.

## Known limitations
right now running it locally via docker can cause some problems since `localhost` is used to interact with some services. The web application want a JWT with the audience of `http://localhost:8080`, the keycloak instance. But the backends that are running in docker communicate with the keycloak instance via `http://keycloak:8080`. This problem can be solved by
- using a public available keycloak instance (there are also proxy services to realize this locally)
- running the backend services locally as a node application and not inside docker

## Vault
To secure your keys, you are able to use [vault by hashicorp](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault), otherwise the keys are either stored in the filesystem for the issuer and verifier or in the unencrypted database for the wallet.

You are able to run vault via docker with the following command:
```bash
docker compose up -d vault
```
This will spin up a vault instance in dev mode and will not persist the keys after a restart. In the `.env` in the root folder, you can set a token you need for authentication.

### Using in the cloud wallet

Configure the environment variables in the `.env` to tell the service to use vault:
```env
KM_TYPE=vault
VAULT_URL=http://localhost:8200/v1/transit
VAULT_TOKEN=root
```
The server does not support multiple key management systems in parallel and also no import or export feature. So decide at the beginning which type of key management you want to use.

TODO: we also need key management for the accounts to support multiple keys, because right now we use the user-id for the key reference, so each user is only able to store one key. We need a mapping table for the keys and the user-id.

### Using in the issuer and verifier

The key management for the issuer and verifier can also be managed via keycloak. Right now a unique key id has to be generated by yourself and passed in the `.env` file. The services will generate a key pair and store it in the vault instance. For know multi key support for one instance is not supported, so the issuer/verifier has to use one key each (but both could technically use the same key).

```yml

### Production use
Update the docker container like this:
```yaml
  vault:
    image: 'hashicorp/vault:1.16'
    restart: unless-stopped
    healthcheck:
      test: ['CMD', 'vault', 'status']
      interval: 30s
      timeout: 10s
      retries: 3
      start_period: 2m
    volumes:
      - vault-storage:/vault/file:rw
      - ./config/vault:/vault/config:rw
    ports:
      - '8200:8200'
    environment:
      VAULT_ADDR: http://127.0.0.1:8200
    entrypoint: vault server -config=/vault/config/config.hcl
```
Get familiar with the [vault deployment guide](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/tutorials/getting-started/getting-started-deploy). This current documentation is not fully covered to run vault in production!
